Now, William Lyon Phelps was one of the most important teachers, professors at Yale University throughout his career.
Phelps's first class at Yale was in 1892 when he lectured to all the freshmen about the beauties and the glories of English lit in Shakespeare, and he made his entire career here.
and died in the 1930s, and he lived, you drove, no, you didn't quite drive by his house near the corner, but in any case, he became a very popular lecturer coast to coast on the beauties of lift and browning and stuff like this, and this is his autobiography, but he does tell in there of Alexander Cochran, whose portrait is out in there.
Now, Alexander Smith Cochran came from a family in Yonkers, New York, that had the Cochran carpet works, and at a time when there was no income tax, they had a
family business and had 1,200 employees, and they had lots of lovely money.
And Alex Cochran was a freshman in Billy Peltz's class in 1892, and so he graduated in the class of 1896, which is remarkable for Yale because of the number of people in that class who did something significant to the university.
That's of 96.
Yeah, but that's a sidelight.
Cochran was one.
Anson Stokes, who was secretary of the university, was another.
Sidelights are good, though.
Yeah.
You know, there was a little sort of luncheon club of sons of the class of 96.
Even the sons of 96 are dead now, but, you know, I knew most of them.
A longtime secretary of the university, George Vail, was another son of 96.
So it was an interesting class.
In any case, Cochran was a yachtsman.
And he traveled a lot, and long about 1910 or 11, he wrote to Phelps and said, you know, this typical thing, you won't remember me, but I was in your class in such and such.
Phelps, you can imagine, didn't remember him, but wrote back saying, yes, of course, dear boy.
And so forth.
And Cochran said, I was inspired to collect some books, and I'd like to send you a list of them.
And he did.
And essentially what Cochran said was that when he was an undergraduate, the
Junior members and senior members of the university did not interact very much, except in the classroom.
And he was accustomed to being in the classroom when Professor So-and-So would come in and take off his top hat and put it down and talk at him for an hour, and then put his hat on and leave.
And undergraduates had their fraternities in their drinking places, and particularly the grown-ups had theirs.
But what Cochrane had was the notion of founding a more or less serious-minded club
where people, junior and senior members, could come together and talk.
And he wanted to form this club and give his collection of books as a nucleus of it.
For my typist, did you just spell Cochran's name?
It's Cochran, C-O-C-H-R-A-N.
Thank you.
And Phelps, of course, thought this was a capital idea, and he went to the president of the university with this notion.
And Cochran's willing to buy the house and get the club going and everything.
And the president of the university has
all presidents of universities then and now would say was, well, we do need a new dormitory at the Trinity School.
Wouldn't he rather do that?
And Cochrane demurred and Columbia University, I've always been told, third with the notion of getting his collection.
But in any case, he went back to Phelps and said, look, let's go ahead and do this.
You find a house.
I'll pay for it.
I'll give you an endowment.
We'll get it started.
That's a great story.
The original is the members of the club.
So they bought this house.
Cochrane gave us the original endowment, which at that time was $100,000.
Here is the endowment of the original.
There's an honorary family, alumni, and undergraduate members.
Now you see, here, this is 1911.
Arthur Twining Hadley was president of the university.
Arthur Twining Hadley, H-A-D-L-E-Y.
And Anson Stokes, in 96 again, became secretary of the university.
Lonsbury was a professor.
Baker was a professor.
Beverly Chew, New York City.
Oh, I just brought his camera up.
Theodore Lowe-DeVinney, New York City.
William Augustus White, New York City.
Those are all Groyer Club in time.
George Plimpton, William Loring Andrews, and so forth.
DeVinney and Chew were two of the seven founding members of the Groyer Club.
And, you know, these are some of the others.
Look, look at how big the class of 98.
Sixes, you see.
There's Alex Cochran, the founder.
Clarence Day, the author of Life with Fathers in that class.
George Nettleton.
I know his daughter.
I went to there on Sunday.
Johnny Burdan was a great person in English.
B-E-I-D-A-N.
Yes.
In any case, this is the club as it was founded in 1911.
And for the next few years, there were a number of
Provenance collectors, Mr. Folger, Mr. Frick, and so forth, Mr. White, others, who gave us books.
I mean, when you look in that catalog, you can look under Provenance, and you will see somewhere there is a book inscribed by Folger to the club and so forth.
So there are a lot of these nice sort of collector's compliments.
What distinguishes this club?
I hesitate to say what makes it unique, but... Well, what makes it unique is... So there is a uniqueness to it.
Okay.
Well, A, none of such organizations exists anyplace else.
But the uniqueness of it is that it brings together junior and senior members of the university.
This is an undergraduate club.
The fact that there are $20 million worth of books here is beside the point.
The fact is that seven days a week during term time, this place is full of people having cups of tea and sandwiches.
The sandwiches haven't changed for 30 years.
There's always tomato on Monday and cucumber on Tuesday and chicken salad on Wednesday, cinnamon toast on Thursday, tuna on Friday.
date nut bread on Saturday and peanut butter on Sunday.
Get that in there.
All right.
But in any case, this hasn't changed for years, and there are always cookies and iced tea this time of the year.
There's a lawn in back where people play croquet, and we occasionally challenge the Signet Society at Harvard to a croquet match.
But in any case, there it is.
There are people of all ages talking.
And on Fridays, I or one of the other members of the library committee is here to open up this vault.
So it is open?
Oh, every week for an hour on Friday afternoon.
Now, any scholar who comes and wants to look at a book lets us know in advance, and I take it over to the Beinecke, and they can sit down and study it.
So it is brought from here to the Beinecke.
But otherwise, the vault is open, and I'm showing it to people on a Friday afternoon.
Oh, boy.
Now, the really astonishing thing, he was interested in Shakespeare, Cochrane, was interested in Shakespeare and early English literature.
And so what we have here is Shakespeare and his sources, the historical sources,
Pliny, Plutarch, Florio's Montaigne, the things that Shakespeare would have read and used and known about.
And we have Shakespeare's works, and we have other highlights, high spots of English literature.
We have a first, first, second, third, and fourth, all relevant.
That's a $2 million book in itself.
Which one, the first?
The first.
What breaks into $2 million?
Is it the original binding?
It's one of the finest copies of the book, with a provenance of seven or eight names going back in the middle of the
18th century.
I will put my pen away.
And binding by, we think, I think the Robert Mears, I'm not sure.
In any case, the thing is, what makes it a $2 million book is... Can I touch it?
Yeah, thanks to the Bradley Martin copy and other things that have been sold lately, that establishes the value of buying copies of this book on that level.
But in any case, the important thing... It wasn't the Bradley Martin, it was the guidance.
You're absolutely right.
Yes, you're right.
That was the four folios that sold as one lot, I think, 2.1.
That's right.
And then there was another.
There were several other sales of some of the others, and by subtraction, we had to send that away.
But I saw their first folio, and it doesn't approach that.
Is that right?
Well, that binding is pretty extraordinary.
It is.
I can just...
Well, this was described in— Their binding is a lot like this one for their first— Oh, that's very ordinary.
Yeah.
Now, this copy was described in an early sale catalog in an amusing kind of way.
It's in the catalog, so I'll let me tell them.
Yeah.
This copy from the libraries of Mr. Herbert and Mr. Wicks is one of the finest copies known, but I've had the finest ever come to public auction.
Don't translate this.
In any case, the Huth copy.
Now, the Huth sale came up in 1911.
H-U-T-H.
And—
Cochrane bought from the Hughes catalog, in one block, 40 Shakespeare quartos.
Oh, those quartos.
And, uh, the thing is this.
Here is Lucrece with the Hughes bookplate, 1594.
How many copies are these?
Three or four?
There are two or three, and this is the finest.
L-U-C-R-E-C-E, 1594.
May I just put this down and just touch it?
I'm sorry.
Part of this quest has been...
Oh, my goodness.
The Rape of Lucrece.
This is an extraordinary copy.
Now, what's the provenance of this?
You see the Huth book right?
You'll have to look.
There's the Huth book right there.
Oh, my.
Okay.
In any case, one of the unusual things about the Huth book, the Huth collection had
the single perfect copy known of the Richard the Third Quarter.
And the only thing that Richard the Third Quarter was known were a couple of proof sheets that were in the British Museum.
And so the perfect quarto was exchanged with the British Museum for their proof sheets, which were exchanged and given to us.
You see stamped British Museum duplicates.
Apart from the perfect quarto and the BM, these proof sheets are the only thing that exists.
Wow.
Now, who struck the deal with the British Museum?
Presumably, the executive director of Hughes Estate and Mr. Cochran.
So they are the perfect one, and we have this.
Among the books, I said that .
.
Did both benefit from that deal, would you say?
I would say that probably .
.
Yes, I know.
How often do you see British Museum duplicate in a book?
I understand.
Is anything as rare as that?
This book is a particular... What I'm trying to say is, who got the better of the deal, do you think?
The British Library or...?
Well, I mean, they have the complete one, you know, the unique complete one, and that would be the better end of the deal, I suppose.
And it's where it belongs, too.
It's where it belongs.
It's amusing for us to have the duplicate stand.
Now, this is interesting.
This is one of the huge books, and it's interesting as a document in the history of book collecting, because this is the 1599, the bad quarter over in the M. Juliet, which was...
used for performance in Mark Tubb.
It had its early owner, who wrote her anagram, Elizabeth Rotten, her lot is to be neat.
R-O-T-T-O-N.
Is that right?
Elizabeth with an S-E-L-I-S-A-P-E-T-H.
In any case, this shows at the beginning, this is just a little booklet, just a little pamphlet, just a little piece of printed ephemera,
marked up for performance, divided into acts and scenes, playing music, and so on.
In the 18th century, there had been, from 1623 to 1685, four folios.
And that was the book, that was the edition that would be in any gentleman's library.
But by the beginning of the 18th century, Shakespeare was sufficiently old-fashioned, he needed to be explained and edited.
And there were nine principal editors of Shakespeare in the 18th century.
starting with Roe in 1709 and ending with Malone.
In any case, this one by one in the 18th century, scholars pointed out the value of these little pamphlets as toolbox, as evidence for the text, and this then was the property of George Stevens, the editor.
Now, Stevens went through this.
Whose annotations are these again, would you say?
Well, I'm about to show you Stevens's, because Stevens is perfectly clear collated this,
and with the earlier quartile, perhaps, or with the folio, and made little corrections like that.
You see, there's a speech of Romeo that he's corrected to Juliet.
You see little marks in this, too, you see, like that.
But in any case, once someone like Stevens pointed out the value of this thing for textual evidence, then it was worthy of being in the library the Duke of Roxburgh.
And the Roxburgh sale, as you know, in 1810, 11, was the most famous sale in the whole aisles of New York.
The Roxburgh Club has now named it.
Exactly.
But after Roxburgh, it belonged... That is the seal, right?
That's the seal.
It belonged to... Is that embossed, or is that... That's just a rubber stamp or a wood stamp or something.
But George Daniel, wealthy collector of the 19th century, had it bound up this way.
And so what I like to show people is...
This quarto of 1610, which is immaculate, priced, stitched, as issued, completely unpressed.
I mean, it's just absolutely wonderful.
But this is what... Oh my God, that page looked like it just came off the press, didn't it?
This is what the Shakespeare would have looked like originally.
But you see, one by one, these 19th century collectors got hold of these quartoes and sent them off to Riviere and Sangorski and had them bound up like this.
How do you feel about that?
Would you rather have them in their original life?
It's just a historical fact.
Of course, as a bibliographer and a scholar, you can learn more from books like that.
But in any case, this one little book embodies the whole history of the collecting of early English literature.
This book.
Because it was put on the map in 1811 by the Roxburgh sale when a lot of books made high prices.
And it was basically over by 1911 when the youth sale.
when Cochrane bought all of these 40 quartos.
Is that the title of this book once again?
This is the Romeo and Juliet, 1599.
But today, you know, in our lifetime, that set of folios that you saw in the garden sale was almost a unique opportunity to buy it.
These quartos, you know, one or two, and Cochrane was able to buy 40 at once.
So for that hundred years in the 19th century, you could collect this early English literature.
We also have
in the library here.
How would this collection of quartos compare to the Huntington collection of quartos?
I honestly can't say.
I don't know.
But it's certainly competitive.
Well, we're one of the top libraries for these things.
But, you know, the Folger Library has 79 of those first folios, and we have one.
Yeah, that's folios.
But quartos, I think, are much more difficult to get than folios.
We all know that.
That's a knockout.
So I wouldn't know how to make that assessment.
But, you know, so we've got these other things.
Chapman's Homer, and there's Paradise Lost.
Where's Chapman's Homer?
All these things.
You know what's really extraordinary is that it's here, in this room and not across the street.
There it is.
There's Chapman's Homer, which in 1801 was calculated to be 203 years old, and someone wrote on the
And time is old, as I have been told.
But now in days, as most men says, money is worth more than love.
But the fun thing about this collection is it has these books in these unusual early bindings.
And these crazy things like these leather boxes that collectors used to make and so forth.
And the undergraduates come in here, and they've never seen anything like this before.
We'll probably never see it again in this kind of intimacy.
What is this, about eight by eight, would you say?
About eight by eight.
What is this seal?
Well, let's finish here first.
There's a lock of Lord Byron's hair.
That's typical of the sort of things that get given to a place like this.
And this book here...
Sebastian Darrow of Freiburg, his 10 books of physics, printed in London in 1581.
This was offered to the Beinecke Library nearly 20 years ago at a very reasonable price.
It's one of four copies known.
And at that time, a very distinguished scientist, Edmund Hutchinson, was president of the club.
So I came to the governor's, and I said, we've never bought a book, but we're always telling our members that Watercrest, the sandwiches cost more than last year, and we ask for little contributions.
What if we made a contribution to the university, to the library, by buying up?
a rare book, and we can tell our members we did that.
So we bought a book for the first time.
This is in 1977.
That's when you purchased your first book.
That's right.
And that was, I'd become the librarian of the club a few years before.
But in any case, we bought this book, and that got us started.
And all of these books have been acquired either by gift or purchase, you know, since the, in the last 15 years.
I'm very proud to have added to the library in that way.
I went out to California
in 1980 and gave a talk at the Clark Library, and the guy came up to me and introduced himself and said, you know, I was in the Lizzie Club as an undergraduate in the early 70s, and I'm now a bookseller, and I have in my stock a copy of the first edition in Switzerland of that same book.
It's also a rare book done in four or five copies, and we are the only library in the whole world to have both editions.
Wow.
in Switzerland, and then published the same year in London.
What is the title of this book again?
Physicorum Libri Decem.
Where do I see it?
Okay.
Physicorum Libri Decem.
It's in the catalog, right?
It's in the catalog, under Vero, sorry, not V, but W-E-R-R-O, Sebastian Vero.
Okay.
Don't bother to transcribe that.
And...
We didn't have a scientific book, that's why we bought that, a school book.
There's Vitruvius in architecture.
Those are things that weren't represented in the collection, but they were, you know, contemporary things.
Now, these still support the basic premise, which are contemporary things.
Oh, absolutely.
Things that he might have written that might have energized the writing of the plays.
Exactly.
But occasionally, we have been given other things.
When I was offered from a member's library a copy of Johnson's and Stephen's Shakespeare, I accepted it, and I would like to have this wall covered with the 18th century editions of Shakespeare someday.
Now, among the great collections of early English literature, the collection of Lord Littleton is at Trinity College, Cambridge.
The collection of David Garrick is in the King's Library and the British Museum, but the provenance
of every other collector of early English literature exists here.
I mean, there's a lot to be learned about the history of English book collecting.
But this book turned up in the library of James Osborne, and I'm the creator of the Osborne collection.
But in any case, it has David Goetz's book there.
And so I secured it from this collection to this, because this does represent James, another great collector of early English literature.
Is there something on Osborne that I could read someplace?
Oh, yeah, sure.
I've written about the Alderman collection.
But that's a collection of manuscripts.
In any case, you see, here is 1733.
That'll be Tybalt's edition of Shakespeare, so I have two of them here.
But then again, if somebody comes along and offers you an early edition of Johnson's Dictionary, well, that's the sort of thing that people like to mention.
is the visitor's book of the club.
It goes back to the earliest days and has a signature of just about everybody connected with books, indeed, or a theater or whatever in it.
You can't spend a lot of time with it, but there's D.B.
Updike.
Oh.
There's H.L.
Lindsay.
There's John Goldsworthy.
Wow.
Lord Dunsany.
Is that my goodness?
That's the nephew of the writer.
There's W.B.
Yeats, George Yeats.
There's E.H.
Dring from Quaritches.
There's John Goldsworthy again.
There's Ruth Draper.
Rachel Lindsay.
Edna St.
Vincent Millay.
English singers, whoever they were.
Isn't that great?
But people love to come and look at this.
Well, John Carter and Phil Hooper at the same time.
Did they come at the same day?
Yes.
March 7th.
Probably it is, huh?
Would make sense.
Jeffrey Keynes, John Shepard, George Washington.
He's from the Huntington Library.
There's James Sturber, there's Edith Sitwell.
He got a whole page to himself.
Well, I remember sketched Edith Sitwell when she visited here.
Uh-huh.
And this, which you asked about,
I mentioned the 75th anniversary of the club that we celebrated.
We wanted to do something big for that celebration.
One of the members designed the Elizabethan Club medal, which we had struck by the Monet, the mint in Paris in 86.
And we offered this free to members who contributed to the fund with which we bought that.
And my idea was that
We honor the founder, the members, present-day members of the club, honor the founder by acquiring something that was as grand as his original gift, and giving it to the club in his memory.
And what we acquired, appropriately, from the firm of Korich, from whom he had acquired many of the books originally, was the sole surviving stage property from the Elizabethan theater, and something related to the Queen herself.
Because in May of 1591,
Lord Burleigh was having a house party at Tybalt's, his country residence, and there was sort of a mask put on at the time, and this did involve a messenger coming with a message from the Queen.
And that was written by the Queen, not in her hand, but composed by the Queen, but in a spirit of fun, written up as though it were a state document and signed with a great seal, and carried to Tybalt's, and he ran on the platform.
And that was available for sale in 1986, and so we bought it and brought it over from England.
And that was at a MASQ, M-A-S-Q-U-E.
That's right.
And that's when your name begins it, doesn't it, huh?
That's wonderful.
And this, again, is what would you call this?
That's the Great Seal of England.
And does that belong to a collector?
Actually, it belonged to an investor.
I'm not sure, but it was something that had been bought privately and offered.
When I called Arthur Freeman at Porridge's, he said, I think I've got something here that might fit your bill.
Okay.
I can give you a copy of that.
That describes this?
Yes.
Oh, great.
That's wonderful.
Arthur, I interviewed Arthur when I was in London.
Oh, you did?
Yeah.
Well, when we're done, I'll be happy to try to give you that.
It's pretty exciting, I think.
Bill Scheide, I spent an afternoon with Mr. Scheide.
Arthur will be here next week, as a matter of fact.
He'll be seeing...
In any case, all these little odds and ends.
I'd found that leaf from Lincoln DeWord sort of gathering dust in a folder in a closet upstairs a few years ago.
Oh, yeah.
But there it was.
These pretty council documents signed by members of the court.
A poem by John Drinkwater, another poem by Alfred Noyes.
These odds and ends have been given to us over the years.
Here's the nephew of the founder,
called me up a few years ago and said, would you like to have my uncle watch?
And it's a nice gold Cartier watch.
I'd rather have $3,000 cash, but there it is, with his initials on one side and the cross flags of his own yacht and the New York Yacht Club on the other.
That was his thing.
Now, how are you constantly keep a weather eye, so to speak, on things that you might want to purchase for the collection?
Oh, yes.
About 77, this changed from...
a collection that had been given to you to one that actually went into an acquisition mode.
Is that a fair statement?
Well, that's a fair statement.
I mean, we always would have been ready to accept gifts, but the collection had been more or less static.
I guess developmental was probably the word as opposed to acquisition.
Yeah, but I sort of started going out and looking for things, and we've continued to do that.
There's Ben Johnson's works.
Do you have a, you must have a King James Bible someplace, no?
No, I don't think there is a Bible in there.
The collection should have one, however.
Yeah, right, it would be appropriate.
Especially where some people think Shakespeare might even have worked on it.
Some people suggest Shakespeare might even have worked on it.
So they say, an amusing thought.
This is the West Worker.
That's his schooner.
His schooner.
And that is the Couser got out in 1910, and that's Cochran, and that's the Kaisers.
Mm-hmm.
Those behind him.
And these here are?
Oh, these are the library calls, so.
Now, I'm going to look for one thing, and I'm going to take those to the library.
Okay.
This is the one.
I had a letter from somebody two days ago who was working on a list of all the book bindings by Sarah Prideaux, and I remembered I do have a Sarah Prideaux binding over here, so I'd better tell you about it.
Tell me a little bit about what you do with the Beinecke and how that feeds into this.
Well, I'm there because I'm here.
I was a Yale undergraduate in 61 and a member of this club and a book collector.
And I went to England for six years.
You remember the name of A.N.L.
Munby?
Mm-hmm.
Jim Munby was my supervisor for my PhD at King's.
And then I had a fellowship in Edinburgh.
I had known Jim Osborne, who was president of this club when I was an undergraduate.
So I came back here to be curator of the Osborne Collection, which is English Literary and Historical Manuscripts.
And that was the late 60s.
And by the middle 70s, I was a librarian at the Busy Club, too.
And I run the book collecting prize, so I have my fingers on the pulse of the collection.
You know, we're going to have to talk some more, I think.
I don't think one hour is empty enough.
I might have to call you and maybe come back and see you.
I'm here, except from late May to mid-June, I'm here.
OK.
Let's go out here.
This is my package here.
Yeah, that's your package.
I was giving a bit of a tour, and I can latch you onto that, and then Christmas night and see it.
But as an undergraduate in history of art, I became fascinated with the 19th century English passion for the Middle Ages.
And I would collect the decorative arts of the Gothic Revival and architectural books and things like that and have a whole house full of it.
And the man I was principally interested in was Welby Pugin, the architect of Howard and Carlton.
But the collection of his books and things he designed and autographed letters and so forth is like nobody else's.
I have things that aren't in any of the national collections in the United States.
So that's been my private passion as a book collector for 30 years.
And you are still an active collector.
Oh, very much.
It's not often where you find
of an individual involved in institutional collecting who collects privately.
Well, it used to be more the rule than it is now.
Yeah, because so often you find that the satisfaction comes in collecting for the institution, and also you're able to get things that you can never get for yourself.
Right.
So my mentors, my role models,
Gentlemen collectors happen to be creators at the same time so a few examples of that would be for instance These are mostly contemporary engravings documents you see These are two things
very recently added.
That's a portrait of the queen that was, but it came along with an autographed letter I bought for the library.
Hi Matthew.
I bought an autographed letter of one being a member of the court for the library, and that's a contemporary portrait that, you know, was a frontispiece for a history book or something like that.
So the autographed letter is over there in the Beinecke, and I had that one framed and transferred it to the little beach.
Everybody knows the fact that last full chain loo in New Haven.
The curious thing about Cochran is that he knew exactly what he wanted to do with his money, and he wasn't going to just give it to your development fund.
And one of the things he did at the end of his life was endow an organization in Washington, D.C., which is unique.
It's called the College of Preachers.
It's sort of attached to the Episcopal Cathedral down there, but it's a place that's run as a kind of study center where
Episcopal priests can go and do workshops and preaching.
He was very interested in improving the quality of preaching in churches, and so they run these workshops, and people come and study there.
A couple of years ago, I met the man who was head of it.
He said, come and see.
So I went and stayed a couple of days while I did other things in Washington.
What they've got is a kind of gothicky building like a stone cottage nestled into one side of the cathedral up there on the hill.
And these people come and do workshops, and they have a dining hall.
And it's terrific fun.
Tell me a little bit about the book collecting prize.
You said you had 23 entries this year.
I'll give you a copy of our prospectus that talks about that.
It's a prize for seniors and sophomores, 350 for a sophomore and $500 for a senior.
And we normally have maybe 15 entries.
23 this year was just extraordinary.
They run everything from science fiction to kiddie lit to renaissance poetry to first editions of James Bond novels, you name it.
Are you impressed by the quality?
It's going to be tough this year because there are so many very good ones.
Why does the university have such a contest?
Well, it wasn't the university's idea.
The best things never are.
It was Mr. Van Syndrome's idea.
But, okay.
Nobody would go out and start something like this.
I mean, it was Kim Brooker's idea founded on this one.
Yeah, well, he won it.
Put something out in Chicago to the honor and glory of Kim Brooker.
Well, a fellow who was a runner-up here, Governor L.D.
Brodsky, you know, I spent the day with L.D.
out in St.
Louis.
Of course, it still drives him nuts that he didn't win this prize.
I mean, it still... Is that right?
...wankles him that he didn't... What class was he in?
Oh, it was the late 50s.
58, 59.
That would have been the very beginning of that.
Yeah.
And the guy that won had a collection of railroad tickets or something like that.
Oh, my heavens.
Railway time table.
Yeah.
Well, that was... Well, Brodsky was the runner-up.
We've had a couple of ones.
Bill Reese won it, I guess.
He's on our committee right now.
Those are really great.
He's wonderful for book collecting.
He really is.
The Hertha collection is the largest Hertha collection outside of Germany and probably the third largest in the world.
And this is your specialty.
Yeah, it began to be formed in the late 19th century by this man named Wilfried.
William Alfred Speck, who was an American person but grew up in this country before the First World War, speaking German.
And he went to a German-speaking school on the Hudson River outside of New York City, and became very interested in Goethe as a man.
He overheard some older boys reading Goethe's, one of Goethe's early plays.
He just became fascinated with Goethe and became a collector and just devoted his life to collecting every scrap he could get about Goethe.
Not from a particularly scholarly person.
Was he a wealthy man?
No, he ran a drugstore.
But he was very frustrated with being in the drugstore.
He called it the pillory, because what he really wanted to go, he wanted to go out and collect stuff.
So whenever he could get off, he would go down to New York City.
A lot of this is in here?
Yeah, good.
And he would buy Goethe books, you know.
And he amassed quite a large collection of Goethe books.
Well, did he find them in this country, or did he go abroad?
Yeah, now this is before the First World War, when there began to be anti-German sentiment.
So, you know, this country has got vast German roots.
Enormous.
I think at one point that the largest ethnic group in this country was Germanic.
And that all sort of got obscured during the First World War, when there was a lot of anti-German feeling.
So anyway, here's Mr. Speck, and he's collecting these Goethe books.
And someone at Vassar heard about his Goethe collection, and they said, well, we'll take the German class over to see these books.
And they went, and amongst this class was Whitney's daughter, who then informed her relatives at Yale.
Yale wooed Mr. Speck and got his collection, and it came here around 1913.
Well, he was alive?
Yeah, and he came with it.
Oh, I love it.
And was the curator until he died in 1928.
And during this time, the collection expanded almost pretty cold because he was able to buy things in Germany during the inflation.
And he didn't have to use his money either at this point.
He had university money.
I mean, at that point, you can think that most of the professors at Yale did their graduate work in Germany, because that was typical to go to Germany and do graduate work.
I mean, Billy Phelps, the famous English professor at Yale, wrote odes in German.
I've got them.
I've seen them, you know.
It's hard to imagine that German was such a current thing.
So anyway, he was Mr. Spacking.
Well, is it, strictly speaking, a Greta collection?
How does it energize the other German collections?
It was the German special collection for years by itself, and other German books went into the general collection, and they just collected Goethe.
It's very philological, so he tried to collect
of Goethe's works printed during his life, and every scrap of biographical material he could find about Goethe.
Is it mainly printed material?
We have manuscripts as well.
From his collection?
Did he collect manuscripts?
And so you have almost every variant of Goethe's works printed during his lifetime, and almost every collected edition up to the critical edition that began around the 1900s, and then selected things afterwards, and vast
materials relating to Goethe's contemporary reception and his biography.
And Speck didn't actually write scholarly books, but he thought, you know, if he could absorb Goethe, he would be a better person.
Well, would you say he became a scholar through his collection?
He wrote some articles.
They tend to be very historical.
He certainly knew his collection.
Oh, yeah.
We're not talking about an accumulator who was out to acquire.
No, I think he did collect pots, too, so he had that kind of collector's mentality.
You know what I mean?
Some people were collectors.
You mean pots?
What do you mean by pots?
Pots, P-O-T-S, ceramic.
That's for my typist.
One day she might be talking about a fellow named P-O-T-T-S.
Did he have anything that might be considered today, especially rare?
by itself, or is this a collection in the true sense that its significance comes in its totality as a collection?
Yes, that's very true.
It has very rare things in it and very common things, and I think he didn't particularly make this distinction.
We do now, because it was a study collection.
It served a long while in the 30s and 40s as the graduate reading room for graduate students in German, and it was in Sterling Library and functioned as their seminar room, really.
The fact that the rare things were black because they're glowing, not because they were rare.
And in that sense, it was a true collection.
Which impresses me as much as anything, frankly.
But I can show you some of the very rare things.
Well, I can see right off that.
Are these part of his things, too?
Yeah.
Well, he's got some pretty extraordinary.
Now, where did he keep all of them?
These are this one.
These are all folios, yeah.
It's the first edition of Vietjean, The Sorrows of Young Vietjean.
1774.
And you can always tell it from the next thing because it has the Iraq on there.
And is that an original binding?
Oh, I would have done it.
That's pretty.
How do we spell the title of that?
I'll sort of help out my titles.
W-E-R-T-H-E-R.
Thank you.
The Sorrows of Young Vetra, I think you call it.
Of course, he has this in numerous editions, I'm sure, too, right?
Yeah, there were many pirated editions during the first year.
I mean, you know, it goes right along here.
And he collected them because they were variants, but now they're very useful because people— Texturally, they were variants?
Yeah.
or pirated editions of different printings.
And now they're very valuable because you can see how this work entered the popular consciousness, and people study what they call reception history.
This is the very first collected works of Goethe, which was a pirated edition.
So the first collected edition of Goethe was an unauthorized collection?
1775.
That's pretty interesting.
This is a very nice picture part of the theory of colors.
These are litho's eyes, right?
Are they hand painted?
I think they're hand colored.
You know, Gertrude tried to disprove Newton's.
These are hand-painted by whom?
No wonder.
Well, somebody at the publisher.
So the art is not particularly relevant to the importance of the book.
The what?
The artwork, particularly.
Well, it's interesting to have it in that state there untrimmed.
How large is this collection, would you say, as a collection?
I'll give you an article when we get downstairs.
It has that.
All the articles.
I don't know.
That's fine.
I'm sure there's some indication of it in here, too.
Probably.
Where are we now?
On the ground floor, I assume.
We're right under the closet when you walk into the building.
Okay.
And the Speck Collection has it as well, a lot of music that relates to Goethe.
This is one of the very rarest.
It's Leipziger Wiederbuch.
Oh.
It's supposed to be the first time any poem of Virta was printed.
And it's an interesting book because it's an early experiment in printing music from movable type.
And you can see the little breaks in the gap there that he must have had a piece of type to accommodate each note.
It was a very difficult thing.
I've read about music.
I mean, it was a very difficult thing.
Mostly at this point you see it engraved.
You can actually see the note.
What's the date on this?
1770.
And the title of that, is that?
Well, it's called the Leipziger Liederbuch.
It's called Neue Lieder in Melodien.
Oh, okay.
We're going to try that.
But we have things like the first edition of Schubert's setting of the L-Phoenig.
That's something that's good.
Yeah, L-K-O-N-I-G.
Okay, O-Omlaug.
O-Omlaug.
And I just don't think people know, you know.
It's the first edition.
That's beautiful.
Not foxed at all.
Now, has this been treated by you people, conserved?
Do you think that's the original?
No, I don't think so.
I don't think it's been washed.
It's remarkably free of foxing, isn't it?
Yeah.
Beautiful.
As I said, the Speck Collection was the special German rare book collection until about 1945 when Kurt von Faber-Dufour came to Yale.
And Kurt von Faber-Dufour was a descendant of the Kater publishing family in Germany, who was actually Goethe's publisher.
But he was a rare book dealer, and he founded a firm called Karl & Faber.
in Munich, which is now called Hutton and Karl.
He was the Farber.
And so he was a book dealer.
And his interest was the 17th century, and I can show you this book.
Yale very much is a collection of collections then, isn't it?
He was very interested in 17th century books, the so-called Baroque period, which he defined very broadly from about 1600 to 1750.
This was at a time before scholars and collectors got interested in this period.
They're not bibliophile books.
They're fairly ugly.
I mean, you know, it was a century of Germany being at war, and the paper is bad, and the printing is sloppy, and it isn't a bibliophile kind of century.
But he was very interested in this and amassed a very fine collection of his 17th century books through his dealership.
He was able to substitute copies when he got a better one.
How do we spell his name?
Kurt, C-U-R-T, Fun, D-O-N, Faber, F-A-B-E-R, Du, D-U, F-A-U-R.
F-A-U-R.
And he was for a few years at Harvard when he first came out of Germany.
in the early 40s, and Harvard, the story goes, refused to make him a faculty person, and so he came to Yale.
This was the first time Harvard did that.
Where he taught a course.
In fact, my husband took his course when he was a graduate student, and he was a wonderful man from all accounts.
I never knew him, very jovial and funny, and really knew these bits and wrote a printed catalog called German Baroque Literature.
shortly before his death had compiled a second volume as a catalog.
Well, what can I say about this?
This is the Renaissance century in Germany, really, where they had societies to improve the language, and where they were adapting European verse forms to German languages.
It's a very interesting thing.
So intellectually, it was rich.
In terms of the book arts, though, it was very functional, right?
You get a lot of small devotional books like that.
Is that a vellum?
Yeah, they're mostly bound in parchment, white parchment.
It's very common.
What's your title, by the way?
Curator is the collection of German literature.
German literature.
This is one of the rarest.
One of the most famous novels of the century was called Sympathismus.
The Germans had a stamp a couple of years ago taking this.
It was this very famous Piccaro novel of the 18th century.
It's the first edition.
It's beautiful.
It's one of the very rarest ones in this collection.
It's a... That's his book plate here.
Yeah.
That's a cut-out one, actually.
The whole thing looks like that.
They cut him up for a kind of small book.
And this is a book of religious poetry by a man named Ferran Kuhlman.
They called it the Kuhl Salter.
It was the Kuhl Salter.
There were only two or three copies of this in the world.
Really?
Who acquired this?
This is, again, the correct— Well, this would have been acquired during Kurt's time as curator here, after he came to Yale, because of his two library associates.
It was pretty shrewd.
Now, you've done this.
You bring these gentlemen, these people, these collectors in as curators.
Who?
It was kind of an inducement, isn't it, to— Well, it happened in the German collection, and I don't know, in the rest of the library.
I suppose the Walpole man.
Indeed.
Lewis was—Bufty Lewis was one of those persons.
Wasn't he part of the university in some fashion, you know?
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
You know, this stuff is kind of obscure, probably, for your purposes.
Well, I don't think it's worth the whole treatment, but these little stories are very interesting.
And if you look at the German collection, what interests me about it, looking at the whole history of it from 1913, that it's an immigrant collection.
You have Speck, who was a German-American.
he was his family came from germany and were speaking german they were real german american immigrants it's interesting to me when you look at it broadly like that that that's an early wave of i don't know exactly when sex parents came here you know but obviously from this german american immigration and
having this kind of interest in German, old classical German culture, Goethe and Schiller.
And then in the 40s, you get the next wave of the Nazi wave, you know, the immigration.
And we have, well, a quote from Barbara Dufour who brought our Baroque collection and much more on, and it's really the starting point of our general
He came in the 40s?
He was part of that?
Yeah.
Well, you see, there was a whole wave of people from Germany, particularly Jewish people who were terrified of persecution.
You'd have a whole tradition in bookselling in this country that came over here.
Yeah, well, he's one of them.
He's one of them.
There was a lecture at Columbia on the precise subject.
Of course, Crouse was one of the more notable ones, but there's a family out in California, I think.
There was actually a piece, a lecture given at Columbia on that, so Kurt was part of that.
Yes, and then the other parts of the collection, I mean, we've acquired the
He was part of the archive of Kurt Wolf, the publisher in Germany.
He was another one who came out of Germany and established Pantheon Books.
You've got their books here?
Not books, but some of the papers from the earlier part of his career.
I don't have the Pantheon Books part, but when he was the Kurt Wolf fellow.
That's W-O-L-F-E, right?
W-O-L-F-F.
F-F.
And he was a very famous publisher in Germany in the 20s and before, and he published most of the expressions, you know, in Germany.
So I have many of the letters.
Was he a collector, or you basically have his archival things?
He was a collector.
I don't have the book.
I have these letters, you know, I have Kafka letters, and I have Lutheran letters.
Oh, that's pretty nice.
Yeah.
Well, Pantheon, I think, well, Schocken, I guess.
Schocken.
He's a publisher.
Kafka, so there isn't a lot of Kafka, but he was a publisher in those days.
That's another way we've been, and I have the archive of Hemant Brauch, who was ex-Albert Austria.
And who is?
How do we spell that?
B-R-O-C-H.
Okay.
I gave you a little pamphlet.
Okay, good.
This is for my typist book.
Right.
He wrote the latest book.
popular publication was a book called The Spell that came out.
I can find out.
So really, Yale has been a beneficiary to some extent of people who were forced to flee their country.
Well, the German collection.
The German collection.
You know, I look at it and it's curious that in this library now, one thing we've been collecting is Polish exile writers.
And we got the papers of Czesław Lilosz.
Oh, really?
And Alexander Butt, and that whole Polish generation, part of whom I've been at Kralt to Paris, and my colleague Vincent is working on this one.
Will that be part of the same collection, or will that be a collection in its own right, a Polish collection?
Right now, it's part of our, what we call, modern books and papers.
He lives out in California, I think.
He does in Berkeley, yeah.
And he was the first one we acquired.
Well, that's a good one, Nobel laureate.
Yeah, and that's the way you do it.
You know, you get one person of a group, and then the others come, and his friend I was in the Vat's papers to get over and negotiate.
One wonders, though, you know, now with Poland emerging from the East, and politically, you wonder what'll happen.
Maybe they'll
I mean, the stuff is here.
Well, he's been an American for such a long time.
I don't know if he has American citizenship, does he?
It'll be interesting because now, you see, I couldn't acquire the papers of the German author because they go to Mabach in Germany, which is a huge literary archive, and the people are naturally going to give their papers in their own country right with it.
Who do you think?
They feel the resonance and all the people reading it.
And, of course, the scholars, the scholarly tradition is going to be in the country, you would think.
Well, partly, mostly.
But back in the 50s, there was Herman Brock gave his papers here because the conditions weren't yet right.
And now that situation applies to Poland, but now that's changing.
And so on.
That's fascinating.
It really is.
These are my things here.
But no, this collection, well, I don't suppose Speck would be an exile.
He's an immigrant.
Well, so you, but that is interesting.
We have an ethnic exile collections and immigrant collections.
We can even distinguish.
How would you rank it in the collection?
Let's say nationally.
Let's start nationally as a German collection.
Well, I tend to see it in the context of Stirling Library as well.
Okay.
Well, I think that's fair.
Because Yale, in general, started to buy since this German literature in a very exhaustive way from, say, 1890s on.
So taking this collection in the context of Yale, I think, always.
How do you get into, how do you gain entry to Bynapy from Sterling?
Now you say taking Sterling into account.
What's the condition?
Why is stuff here as opposed to there?
Well, I don't know.
Just when the building was put up, they just brought over what was the old rare bookman collection, and that's what you see in the tower.
That's what we call it, the Tower?
The Tower, the Book Tower.
The Book Tower?
The General Collection.
And then they brought over several special collections, the German-American, the Osborn Collection, the Parks and the Western American.
Now, I don't know why they decided not to be known for African and Slavic.
And they may yet.
They may yet, but there are.
I think it partly has to do with the fact that most of our acquisitions are antiquarian.
We don't do secondary stuff.
I don't know, it's hard to say why a book is here and not there.
I thought there might be a clear criteria that's criterion as well.
There are different criteria in different areas.
There are certain chronological considerations that differ a good deal on, you know, I think it's 1820.
But I think antiquarian is a good place to start as opposed to, you know, secondary.
Something like for automatic transfer, there are different cutoff things in different forms.
areas like later for American works than for European works, because we couldn't possibly have the whole European 17th century over here.